
# Account enumeration

Or finding out which accounts exist.

When trying to login to the website, notice how there is an error message that says the *username* is incorrect?

This can tell you there is an `admin` account, because the error message changes.

A username by itself isn't too bad, but many websites use an email address to login.

So if evil hacker has an email address for a victim, they might be able to tell if they have an account on your website; and if they do, they can start guessing their password.

---

To fix...

Don't say what is wrong during login. Just say something like "the login details are incorrect".

But it's not just the error message we need to think about:

- When someone registers on the website, we shouldn't say "this email address is in use". We should add a new record in a table of pending registrations, and send them an email. If they are new to the website (most likely) the email can give them a link to activate their account (which also proves their email address is correct), and if they already have an account, let them know, maybe with a link to the forgotten password page.

- The forgotten password page should simply take their email address and send an email, while taking them to a page explaining that an email has just been sent to them. The email will either give them a link to reset their password, or say that they don't have an account with this email address.

- As you will be storing your passwords correctly (with a slow hashing algorithm); even if the username/email wasn't found, you should still check their password (just make something up). If you don't, when someone tries to login with an account that exists, it will take about 0.1 second longer for the server to check the password.

As a side note, please remember to apply some limits:

- We don't want someone guessing usernames and passwords on the login page. Maybe record their IP address each time they try to login, and block any login attempts if there have been 5 or more failed logins within the last hour (you probably don't want lock the account itself, as this allows someone to intentionally guess incorrect passwords, just so they can disable the account).

- We don't want someone sending thousands of requests per second to the login page, even with fake details, as the slow password hashing algorithm could take up all of our servers processing time, and it will either become very slow, or stop accepting connections for real customers.

- We don't want someone requesting password resets (or registering), as this will send many random emails - this will annoy the recipients (who might not even by your customers), and your server will probably be blacklisted (i.e. you sent too much spam).
