# Guessable passwords

Don't allow easily guessable passwords.

You can probably guess the password for the `admin` account.

Hint: It's a word that's on this page, it starts with the letter "p", and is 8 characters long :-)

---

There are some pretty common passwords out there:

- password
- 123456
- 12345678
- qwerty
- dragon
- letmein
- monkey

That said, don't make the password requirements too strict. If you tell someone to enter a 10 character password, with upper and lower case letters, numbers, symbols, and get them to change it every month, they *will* get annoyed, and choose something like "Password1!", and next month it will be "Password2!", etc.

I'm not going to suggest what your requirements should be, but a simple minimum length of 8 characters, and a pretty "password strength" meter (maybe using [zxcvbn](https://github.com/dropbox/zxcvbn)) would push most people in the right direction.

You could also check their password against a list of the most common passwords, and block those ones specifically.

It might be worth suggesting they use a password manager, which will create a nice long and random password, that is only used on your website. This is important, as they probably have "a password" they use on multiple websites, and I can guarantee that one of those websites will be hacked one day, and that website wouldn't have stored the passwords correctly.

Password managers also work better with their auto filling feature, as it makes it much easier/faster for customers to login (making them happy), and it means that if they end up on a phishing website, the password manager won't provide the password to it.
