
# Information leakage

Evil hacker creates the account "made-you-look".

Where they set their account profile image to something that is hosted on their evil server. e.g.

	https://www.krang.org.uk/misc/scientist-100.jpg

Now they ask the admin to check if their picture is working correctly.

The admin would login (if you haven't noticed by now, their username is "admin" and password is "password").

And they would see the picture.

All looks good.

So they go into the profile page just to be sure.

Still ok, it must be a problem their end.

What could have gone wrong?

---

Open the profile page again.

But this time, open your browsers developer tools, go to the Network tab, and refresh the page.

Notice how the request goes out to krang.org.uk

Now look at the request headers.

Notice how your browser sent the header:

	Referer: https://example.net/security/profile-edit.php?id=13

This was sent to the evil server, along with your browsers "User Agent" string (i.e. which browser you are using, it's version, and the operating system).

It would also tell them your current IP address.

By itself that information isn't that useful, but it tells them if your browser is up to date (and if not, what they could use to attack it in future), and it's just told them about a page on your website (which could have been a URL for your admin control panel).

---

To fix...

Ideally you wouldn't allow them to host anything on their own website.

How do you know it's a good image? It could exploit something like a buffer overflow vulnerability).

Or it might be as simple as the remote website being shutdown (so your website starts showing broken images).

That said, it's always worth setting a [Referrer-Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Referrer-Policy).

Because there might be another way of them getting to show their image, hosted on their server, on your website :-)
