
# File uploads

This website allows the users to upload a profile image.

But what happens if the uploaded file is not an image.

You can see an example of this at:

	https://example.com/security/uploads/profile-pictures/666.js

---

To fix...

Apply as many restrictions as possible:

- Check that the file extension is correct.

- Check the uploaded mime-type is correct (be warned that Internet Explorer has it's own list of mime types, e.g. "image/x-png").

- If it's supposed to be an image, check it's actually an image (e.g. in PHP you can do a rough check with `getimagesize()`).

- If it's supposed to be an image, re-save it at an appropriate size - this ensures that it's actually an image, and avoids problems like a user uploading an image straight from their digital camera that's 5MB in size. In PHP you can use GD or ImageMagick (Imagick).

---

And when you upload the file, do not use the filename that was provided (maybe store that in the database, and name the file after the ID).

An evil user might have specified a non-standard filename, like "../../../etc/passwd", in an attempt to get it saved somewhere else on the server.

Or they might've been able to get the file saved with an unexpected extension (e.g. "evil-code.php"), which is handled differently by the server. For this issue, it's also worth applying at the Apache config:

	<Directory "/path/to/uploads/">
		php_admin_flag engine off
	</Directory>

Assigning your own filenames also avoids the issue of someone trying to upload a file with the same name (which might be rejected, or even worse, replace the original).
