
# Bad cookies

Try logging in to the website with the username "craig" and the password "password".

Then open your browsers developer tools, and see what cookies have been set.

Now lets say you found out about the profile listing page, and tried going to:

	https://example.com/security/profile-list.php

It's annoying that it says "permission denied".

Do you think we could change any of these cookies to give us permission?

---

To fix...

Never trust anything the browser sends to your server, and this includes cookies.

You should look at using sessions.

In PHP this is as simple as calling `session_start()`, and storing all the details in $_SESSION.

This means the browser is given a session cookie like "nzp10bfod16smd6umq1dd6le34", and this acts like a key to unlock a file thats stored on your server, which stores anything you like about this user, in a way that they cannot tamper with the values.

---

Bonus problem...

Lets say our website did use a proper session cookie.

What happens if the evil hacker found the secret value?

Maybe they:

- Were using the victims computer 10 minutes before, loaded the website (so a session cookie was set), they copied the value onto their computer, left the room, then waited for the victim to login.

- There was a Cross Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerability, the victim loaded the page, and their cookies were sent to the evil hackers website (where they used them in their browser).

- The evil hacker sent a link to the victim, and the URL specified the session value to use (in a process known as session fixation).

- A page on the website was loaded over HTTP, and the evil hacker was able to see the cookie being sent to the server.

Ideally you would change the session id every time the user logged in - In PHP that's done with:

	 session_regenerate_id();

The session cookie should be marked as `httpOnly` so any JavaScript on the page cannot read its value - In PHP that's done with:

	ini_set('session.cookie_httponly', true);

The session cookie should be marked as `secure` so it's never sent over a HTTP connection - In PHP that's done with:

	ini_set('session.cookie_secure', true);

The session id should only ever be sent via cookies (not via the query string) - In PHP that's done by default since 5.3.0 via:

	ini_set('session.use_only_cookies', true);

And if your being extra paranoid, it can be worth changing the session id every few minutes. But be careful with this one, it can cause the website to logout the user when they aren't expecting it (e.g. they are on a slow connection, click on a link which causes the session id to change, and because they are impatient, they click on the link again, re-sending the old session id, which is no longer valid).
