
# SQL Injection

The login form is vulnerable to SQL Injection, otherwise known as SQLi.

Try putting adding a double quote character in the username field.

Notice how it causes an error message.

---

Why not try this very long username instead:

	does-not-exist" UNION SELECT 1, "123", "true

And the password "123"?

---

How this works...

The SQL would have normally been something like:

	SELECT
		id,
		password,
		admin
	FROM
		user
	WHERE
		username = "my-username"

But with the SQL above, it becomes:

	SELECT
		id,
		password,
		admin
	FROM
		user
	WHERE
		username = "does-not-exist" UNION SELECT 1, "123", "true"

Or even better:

	SELECT
		id,
		password,
		admin
	FROM
		user
	WHERE
		username = "does-not-exist"
	UNION SELECT
		id,
		"123",
		"true"
	FROM
		user
	WHERE
		id = "1"

So we basically have 2 SELECT queries (which get UNION'ed together), where the first one does not find anything (because there is no account with the username "does-not-exist"), but the second one does find an account.

In this case we specify the account with the ID 1, and we told the database that we wanted it to return "123" as the password.

---

To fix...

We use parameterised queries.

This means you start by creating an SQL statement like:

	$sql = 'SELECT
			id,
			password,
			admin
		FROM
			user
		WHERE
			username = ?';

And you send that to the database first.

Then, in a second step, you tell the database the parameters.

In this case, we would say the first (and only) parameter is "my-username".

This means that the SQL string is never tainted with user supplied values.

---

Depending on your preference (and database support), you can sometimes used named parameters.

So rather than having a number of question marks, you could do:

	$sql = 'SELECT
			id,
			password,
			admin
		FROM
			user
		WHERE
			username = :username';

Then, in the second step, tell the database that the "username" parameter is "my-username".
